CHAPTER 7 : FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Chapter Quiz attempt 1

Learning outcome :

1 INTRODUCTION        
2 ROLES OF STANDARD SETTERS, AUDITORS, AND REGULATORS IN FINANCIAL REPORTING - Done           
3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - Done.        


CHAPTER REVIEW QUESTIONS         

Attempt 1 : 20/31

1 Accounting standard setters help ensure the consistency of reported financial information by:
A recognising and enforcing financial reporting standards.
-> B establishing how financial reports should be prepared and presented.
C expressing an opinion on the application of financial reporting standards.

2 The financial statement that provides information about a company’s financial position at a specific point in time is the:
-> A balance sheet.
B income statement.
C cash flow statement.

3 Which of the following best shows the accounting equation?
-> A Total assets = Total liabilities + Total shareholders’ equity
B Total assets + Total liabilities = Total shareholders’ equity
C Total shareholders’ equity – Total assets = Total liabilities

4 The values of assets on the balance sheet are reported:
A only at historical cost.
-> B only at fair market value.
--> C at a mix of historical cost and fair market value.

5 Which of the following accounts is most likely classified as a current asset?
A Goodwill
-> B Inventory
C Property, plant, and equipment

6 Shareholders’ equity, as reported on the balance sheet, includes:
A cash.
-> B common stock.
C long-term debt.

7 Accounts payable are classified as:
A assets.
-> B liabilities.
C shareholders’ equity.

8 Net property, plant, and equipment is included in:
A shareholders’ equity.
B long-term debt.
-> C non-current assets.

9 The profit or loss generated by a company over a year is presented in the:
A balance sheet.
--> B income statement.
-> C cash flow statement.

10 Which of the following is an example of an operating expense?
A Dividends paid to shareholders
B Interest payments made on a bank loan
-> C Depreciation expenses for plant and equipment

11 Gross profit represents revenue minus:
A all expenses.
--> B cost of sales.
-> C operating expenses.

12 Income that is available to reinvest in the company or distribute to owners is:
-> A net income.
B operating income.
C earnings before taxes.

13 Which financial statement is not prepared on an accrual basis?
-> A Income statement
--> B Cash flow statement
C Profit and loss statement

14 Net cash flow is most likely:
A equal to net income over a reporting period.
B equal to operating income over a reporting period.
-> C different from profit depending on the timing of the cash flows.

15 Operating income and cash flow from operating activities are reported, respectively, on the:
A income statement and the balance sheet.
-> B balance sheet and the cash flow statement.
--> C profit and loss statement and the cash flow statement.

16 The statement of cash flows presents:
A revenues and expenses over a period of time.
-> B sources and uses of cash over a period of time.
C assets, liabilities, and owners’ equity at a point in time.

17 Which of the following is best described as an investing activity on the cash flow statement?
A Cash inflow from the issuance of new shares of equity
B Cash outflow from the payment of dividends to stockholders
-> C Cash outflow from the purchase of property, plant, and equipment

18 Dividends:
A increase shareholders’ equity.
-> B are a distribution of net income.
C are an expense on the income statement.

19 A net loss during an accounting period will cause shareholders’ equity to:
A increase.
--> B decrease.
-> C remain unchanged.

20 Which of the following sentences is most accurate?
A The income statement and cash flow statement are unrelated.
--> B Net income is often the starting point for the cash flow statement.
-> C The income statement presents information for a period of time, whereas the cash flow statement presents information at a point in time.

21 If a company is profitable, then its cash flow from operating activities:
A is positive.
B is negative.
-> C can be positive or negative.

22 Cash paid for salaries would be included as a component of cash flows from:
A financing activities.
B investing activities.
-> C operating activities.

23 Cash flow from financing activities is most likely related to:
A the payment for inventory.
B the purchase of a machine.
-> C the issuance of long-term debt.

24 A manufacturing company recently sold one of its buildings. The proceeds from the sale are classified as a cash flow from:
-> A financing activities.
--> B investing activities.
C operating activities.

25 Ratio analysis is used to:
--> A compare companies of different sizes.
B identify the uses of cash during the period.
-> C determine profit or loss associated with operations.

26 The ratio that best measures a company’s ability to meet its short-term obligations is:
-> A the quick ratio.
B the asset turnover ratio.
C the debt-to-equity ratio.

27 Ratio analysis provides analysts:
A information about only the past financial performance of a company.
B information about only the valuation of a company based on the market price of its shares.
-> C information about both the past financial performance of a company and the valuation of a company based on the market price of its shares.

28 The return on equity for a company and the industry in which it operates are 10.3% and 9.6%, respectively. The company is most likely performing:
--> A better than the industry.
B the same as the industry.
-> C worse than the industry.

29 Which of the following is used to evaluate how a company is financing its assets?
A Current ratio
-> B Debt-to-equity ratio
C Return on assets

30 Which of the following values of a company’s quick ratio indicates the best liquidity?
A 0.50
-> B 1.00
--> C 1.50

31 A company’s return on equity (ROE) can be broken down into which of the following components?
A Asset turnover, liquidity, and financial leverage
B Net profit margin, liquidity, and financial leverage
-> C Net profit margin, asset turnover, and financial leverage

